As with all measures, the process is reliant on LAs accurately capturing fields as per the relevant specification defined lists. Any fields that are invalid as per the CLD specification are removed from the analysis – source data will not be corrected and invalid field entries cannot be mapped to the specification.  All invalid field entries are flagged and captured in the Data Quality Reports received by LAs to highlight areas to be corrected in future submissions. 

'Existing Clients' for the purposes of this script is all clients who, at the point of the ST-Max/Reablement period starting, had an open/ongoing Long Term Service in place

Only high-level totals of ST-Max events for existing Clients are produced by the STS002b code. Further development would be needed in order to categorise the outcomes of these reablement periods into the STS002b SALT categories

Code is written as at Q3 for 2023/24, the latest submission as per time of creation. Date filters can be amended as needed, making sure to check that ALL dates all the way down the code scripts have been amended in-line with the period of interest (i.e. 'Start Date', 'End Date' and also occasionally 'Import Date' filters) 

As part of a process to find the latest edition of each Event within the historical data, a new 'EVENT ID' is created within the script. This is used to avoid old versions of Events (from previous submissions) still showing as open and thus potentially falling in scope of the period of interest when a later version of the same record has been marked as closed and NOT in scope of the period of interest. The newly-created EVENT ID uses a concatenation of numerous fields within CLD, where rows with a complete match indicate the same Event. This logic has been found to be more robust when applied across all LAs than taking the Event Reference Number (ERN) within CLD at face value.

NHS Number is used as a unique identifier for each Client wherever possible. Where NHS number is not populated the Local Authority unique ID is used instead, if this can be done without compromising accuracy. In instances where no ID can be attributed to an event row without introducing the risk of either double-counting or incorrect allocation of identifiers to individuals, these event rows will be removed from the headcount (see Glossary of key concepts for further information). 
